yo mitch hello how are you
good man one second there we go
so can you hear me you can hear me right
yeah yeah all right cool i kind of got a
weird
setup going on here uh weird meaning
i'm just holding my mic up with a glass
cup here
i don't know interesting yeah do what
works right my friend
yeah yep yep so how you been man
i've been all right how have you been
busy yeah same very busy
not really used to being so busy for
sure
yeah and so so tell me what have you
been kind of
up to it's been a while since we talked
uh i've been up to just i've
i stopped streaming like five months ago
or so and i've just been like on a
different journey completely that's kind
of what i've been up to
yeah i saw you were streaming a lot of
wow and it seemed like it was really
going well
yeah no i i kind of with like shadow
lens came out and my stream was
actually had peaked at like the highest
heights i'd ever hit but i was still
just like super unhappy
you know so i kind of just was like why
am i continuing to do this
it's like yeah i'm successful and like i
have like on the outside it all looks
good right but on the inside i was
i was not good so i just decided to try
something else
wow that seems hard to do
i mean it was actually not that hard i
kind of just was like my heart just like
knew it had to be done
you know like i i i just i just
something inside of me just told me like
there's got to be more to this life or
something you know like because i i've
been streaming a long time
and i feel like i've been in the
environment of just gaming and playing
games for
you know 10 years or so so i just wanted
to like throw myself full-fledged into
something else and see what happens
can you help me understand you said that
there were like
things were going really well but like
you just knew on the inside that it was
not right yeah like
like career-wise everything was going
well right like from the outside
like from perspective but my internal
happiness and
whatever is like guiding me i don't know
like my spirit whatever you want to call
it like just i just felt
deeply sad inside like after most of my
streams i would just like kind of
i would like to take these long showers
where i would just let the water just
slap me just lay there and slap me and i
would just cry for hours like this was
like
a ritual of mine while i was like
streaming shadowland so it's like i
would go live and i'm like all good when
i'm live but then it's when i turn off
the camera and it's just me
alone i'm not okay you know so
i just realized like why am i lying to
myself you know like no amount of money
or success
from twitch or any of that egotistical
stuff that i was chasing years ago is
going to make me happy and
shadowlands was like a realization for
me to really figure that out it was like
oh
this doesn't make me happy you know i
thought if i had
all the viewers and subs and all that i
would be good but i i was i was worse
than
bef when i wasn't you know so it's like
yeah that's how i knew i just
i needed to try something different it
was like it was time for me to try
something different
and wow man
that's that's big bro
yeah i mean it's definitely been a
journey for sure but i've been uh i've
been on a spiritual kind of like
growth path for a couple years now i
never really shared this with twitch
chat because i didn't think there was
much relatability there
um i thought it was you know more so i
just come on play my game get rank one
you know everyone's like you know thinks
i'm a good mage and
it's all good you know what i mean but
yeah i've been on like a spiritual path
for a while now and it just kind of all
hit me at once where i'm like
yeah i don't know i just need to like
follow my heart or something like that i
don't know if i could
it sounds cliche but i don't know yeah
you know there's a reason that cliches
are cliches
that's true yeah that is true right and
it's i i i when i hear something like
follow your heart
it's the kind of thing that like a lot
of people say but i think very few
people truly understand and like when
you understand it
it feels like it makes so much sense
yeah for sure it does make so much sense
i mean just
you know just six months ago i don't
know it's like everyone thought i was
happy you know like literally my friends
they were like
everyone thought i was happy yeah i was
i had like i don't know like a lot of
viewers playing
wow shadowlands and i don't know from
the outside i guess people just think
that's happiness right like just like
like uh financial or like career success
is like
sure it's just like i don't know i just
i really
am struggling in this world to find
deeper meaning than that you know
because like
yeah i'm just i really do want to find
something deeper and like
a way to express my like the real parts
of
me that that i haven't been able to
express through streaming just because i
feel like
with streaming it's it's not as like as
an emotional of a connection with the
viewer that i would like i guess so that
makes sense
yeah like go ahead sorry no no keep
going man
no i was just saying it's hard for me to
relate to like to the viewers that i had
like playing wow and all that
it just didn't feel like i was making
that like real emotional connection and
whenever i would try and like open
myself up it's like people didn't seem
to really care there was just pushback
like you know like dude shut up just
play well whatever you know
so it's like i don't know i just want
people to like to uh that's why i
started music because like it was just
me
alone with like a microphone and i could
just like express my
my soul in a way and like i just want
people to be able to listen to that
that version of me rather than like the
version of me that just had to
you know be this like sort of character
to on stream
if i don't know yeah so i'm hearing that
you were sort of living a fake
life on screen uh yeah well
i was just trying to portray a happy
version of myself when i wasn't actually
happy so if that's fake then i guess
yeah but i was trying to portray a put
together happy
normal functioning human when that was
far from the reality that i was actually
living
what was the reality you were living
honestly just hell like i i really feel
like streaming has done a number on my
mental health over over the years
and i don't say that with like obviously
streaming has done a lot of good things
for me you know so it's
not like it's all bad i'm just saying
there's there's a lot of
things with it that that sort of did a
number on me
uh over the years and
i i wish i had like sort of taken this
leap of faith sooner in my life to be
honest with you because
i've been very much so a lot more
myself and able to express myself and
just be
happier in general since i stopped
streaming uh but
a lot of the reason that i kind of was
took this
leap of faith was just like obviously
you know the reckful passed away
and that was a like giant moment for me
to be like wow
like this [ __ ] is never the same for me
again like for real that was like a
moment where i realized it would never
be the same again
and uh i don't know i think a lot of
other broadcasters talked about how
reckful touched them or whatever but
like
i i just i had like a super deep
friendship with byron for many years
like we go back to like 2012
playing you know cataclysm wow together
before twitch was even really a thing
and
before anyone made like any money doing
it so it was like
to me that event just like hit me like a
brick and it still does
and i i sound like uh yeah it's like
i don't know it still really haunts me
though that he's gone
can you help me understand what changed
for you when
byron passed away i just realized that
i don't have as much time as i thought
you know i really
realized that it's not like
like i was always living in the past
hoping that the past would
happen again and then once he
passed away i realized the past will
never happen again and i need to stop
chasing on to something that doesn't
exist anymore
damn dude that's deep yeah that's
sad that's kind of how i feel about it
so yeah i'm very thankful though for all
the twitch stuff you know what i mean
like i had a great career it was dope
and i'm hoping that i'm really hoping
that i can express myself in a different
manner and people
will be uh okay with
the the deeper parts of me you know not
like the shallow fart jokes
on twitch but like the deeper parts of
me i hope people would like
want to see what's up with that too
yeah man well so help me understand a
little bit
what is it what is it that makes you
[Music]
how can i say this so it seems like some
people
are really happy with a slice of mitch
right not the whole pie they're good
with this yes
yeah not for sure go ahead sorry
and so i'm just kind of wondering a
little bit about like
you know why does
everyone or not maybe not everyone but
but you know what are you like
would it be okay if people weren't happy
with the rest of the pie
you know what yeah i'm sure because i
didn't get it
i was just like i'm getting a sense that
you want to share more and you want to
connect more
and yeah i'm a little bit confused
because
it seems to me like something about our
language is kind of falling apart where
i'm getting a sense of words that sound
like you're looking for approval
but the feeling that i'm getting from
you is not really about approval at all
and i just want to try to understand
that
you know that boundary between like
giving people what they want and wanting
them to give them more
and like wanting to give them something
authentic and wanting them to accept it
yeah that's kind of the way yeah that's
that's probably
how i would say is like i just want to
be
my authentic self and make art rather
than just like you know i do something
deeply meaningful
for like me i guess you know like i want
to i want to do something deeply
meaningful for me and i
i have like a weird story i mean um and
i feel like
a lot of people might be able to relate
to that weird story yeah i'd love to
hear it
yeah for sure i have i have a crazy
story like with with all
all of it i mean i don't we don't
probably have enough time to go into
everything but
yeah i have a really really uniquely odd
story and you know i might just be some
dumb kid from
baltimore or whatever like i've never
really struggled financially because
i've had like you know the twitch
success from an early age and stuff but
i think that actually may be a part of
why i fundamentally have grown up
awkwardly if that makes sense like i
think um
i didn't really understand at like a
young age
what i really had and it's like
it just sort of took control what is
what did you have at a young age
i was just fortunate enough to not grow
up financially struggling like i grew up
you know going to private school all of
that and then i
i got big and started making money on
twitch was like 20 21
you know so it's like i didn't really
have the traditional
like glo grow up and it's like i feel
like as i got more successful i became
more lonely
um it's like a weird like double-edged
sword type thing
um yeah so i've had like the material
things that humans
like sir saw like search after right but
i never really had
like deep love or anything that i really
felt like i could connect to like
on that level and truthfully like i'm a
very emotional
spiritual like person and
i've never really shared that i always
kind of dumb myself down and made myself
out to be this just like clown
stir wow player right yeah and uh for me
i feel like that was
i did myself a huge dis justice and it
just this justice
in that way i uh i i i regret doing that
a bit but it's like at the same time
that's what made me successful so it's
like
it's just you know fighting the
double-edged sword that is i'm sure
there's a lot of parallels like this
with any career path right um
so yeah
yeah i mean you know i i
it's interesting i i find that the
double-edged sword isn't so much with
the career path but it's more with us
um for sure and but at the same time
i kind of hear you loud and clear
because i think that it's it's you know
you can
easily make an argument that there's a
cost
to being a successful personality on the
internet
yeah and there's like i just wish i had
guidance in any way like i didn't really
have
much family guidance going into this
like my father was always pretty much
like uh
just obsessed with his work and his his
business and all that and like he
and i told you you know about the
situation about my mother she's you know
she's not really able to be there for me
because she's
extremely ill and then i have a brother
with autism who's currently
in some mental hospital probably like i
don't know like the last time i spoke to
him was like a year or two ago and
there's just a lot of things that weigh
heavy on my conscious and um
yeah so like from the outside i had all
this [ __ ] success and all this [ __ ]
but it's like i i
i just it didn't do anything for the
pain inside man like i i really feel
like
i had a i had a really good thing with
like a couple friends that i met
like reckful being one of them and it's
like
i don't know i feel alone in the world
but
it's all good because um
i don't know i'm just i'm gonna find a
way to like shed this pain you know one
way or another
when you say it's all good help me
unders
doesn't seem all good no it's not i'm
not all good right now but i know
in the future i i've like i've done a
lot of work on like self-reflection and
like
you know just pretty much just like
emotionally like become more intelligent
and
not only that with like body mind spirit
chakras whatever you want to say
so eventually i will do the work that is
necessary to
be a human again but right now i'm
sort of doing uh i'm just kind of seeing
i'm on like a path right now that i have
to see through if that makes sense
yeah so you gotta you gotta get to the
end of your journey
and this is maybe the tough part yeah
it's kind of
the dark valley that you have to get
through to kind of come out the other
side
yeah for sure yeah and i
can i just think for a second mitch
absolutely man
no big deal i feel like i'm playing a
lot of catch up
because i i i think um it's it's clear
to me that you've been walking a very
serious journey for some time now
and uh i'm just trying to recalibrate
from the person that i
first spoke to because you seem like
you've changed a lot in a good way
oh i've definitely changed you know when
you sort of just have to look at
yourself in the mirror and just be
honest
like that moment happened to me and let
me tell you the person i was looking at
[ __ ] hated i hated the person i was
looking at that's why i was like
i just saw this insecure sad dude
running away from
everything that makes him hurt and just
hiding behind this mask
of like streaming success or whatever
you want to call it just like sort of
maybe i wasn't like
hiding full-on hiding but i was
definitely running away
like my anxiety my anxiety and
all the things that i have like held
deep inside myself
i just ran away from them you know it
goes back to like
me feeling like i don't really have many
deep connections
you know i i really don't have anyone to
really call
you know it's like if i if i'm like for
example this talk i'm having with you
i don't feel like i could have this talk
with my own father and he's like the
only one
in my family that is even like
coherently enough to like hold a
conversation with me
and that sucks
what what gets in the way of you being
able to have a conversation like this
with your dad
he just isn't there emotionally for me
and
he never really was i think he's working
on it now that he's getting older
but at the same time i i think to my
father i'm just some sort of like prop
to him like it's
like i'm his only son that is like
functional and has a career and is doing
stuff and
like he to him i'm just sort of like
like
his only thing to carry his name or
whatever you want to call it i
truthfully i think if i had an older
brother that was doing
other things my dad would never even
talk to me that's actually how i feel
wow yeah
so i'm kind of almost hearing that your
value is sort of
not based on you as a person but sort of
like the role you
fill yeah you're like the
carrier of the legacy yeah for sure
and there's some crazy things that i've
gone through with uh i don't know how
personal i can get but there are some
crazy things that i've gone through
in terms of just like betrayal in that
regard where
i was just like put in charge of things
that i really shouldn't have been at a
young age you know
i mean you can share you understand
twitch terms of service better than i do
i'm happy to hear whatever you want to
share but also
you know you don't you don't have to
talk about that stuff i think there's
plenty that we can talk about in terms
of your spiritual journey but
for sure i just think uh if yeah it's
nothing like tos or anything like that
it's more of just like morally incorrect
things that have sort of happened i
guess but yeah like we don't have to
dive deep into some deep
crazy stuff if you don't if you it's up
to you
well let me kind of lay out how i think
about that mitch and then you tell me
whether we should dive in
so what i'm hearing what i'm hearing at
the core of it
is that there's mitch jones
and then there's mitch right there's
like the streamer personality there's
the
i still remember the first time we
talked i still remember you kind of said
but it's all good i'm mitch jones
yeah i remember that and and so i think
it must have been like over a year ago
but like that
man just the way you said that really
encapsulated
that there's like this persona on the
outside
and then there's like the person inside
like moving the levers
yeah for sure and on the outside it's
like a big smile and lots of fun and
inside there's a dude who's like
exhausted and sweaty and like can't get
a breath of fresh air
yeah for sure uh i think the mitch jones
thing you're talking about
is gone now like i even when i even when
i stream shadow lines i was not really
putting on
an act it was more of just like being
myself playing wow
and trying to put out the best version
of myself but truthfully mitch jones the
streamer whatever person persona
whatever you want to call it
i think that person died when reckful
when reckful died like truthfully like i
i just i couldn't do it anymore
and um yeah yeah
do you remember earlier when i was like
i need a second to process because you
seem like a different person yeah for
sure
and i need to catch up i think what i'm
grappling with is that i don't i don't
detect a whole lot of mitch jones so i
was like wait this is weird
yeah no i've really i really dug into
myself and that's why
i start that's why i changed you know
from twitch streaming to like music
because
i just want to be me
and give that you know whether it's
painful or not like i need to
give whatever it is that my soul is like
it's just i need to just be open heart
i don't want to be a closed heart
anymore walking around you know
so i think that's sounds like it's i'd
love to talk about
that when it comes back to your dad i
want to just share a couple of thoughts
so what i'm really getting the sense of
is that what you want more than anything
else
is to be connected and that there was
sort of like a farce that you could put
on
because at the end of the day there were
like a couple of like people like byron
who you did feel connected to and so
that was kind of enough
but really losing him has helped you
realize like
you really need to be seen you need to
be heard you need to be
i don't even want to say accepted but
you need to be treated with authenticity
and even if that's acceptance that's
fine and even if that's rejection if
people say like your music sucks
oddly enough i think you may be okay
with that as long as they're straight
with you that they see you for who you
are
and you say this is not for me or this
is for me you're actually
okay either way yeah i'm good i i'm like
i said i
i know who i am and what i need to do
you know what i'm saying and um i'm more
so just trying to
show a deeper side of myself and i am
okay with acceptance or not acceptance
either way
it's like you know i'm not looking for
validation externally i more so
i've done the work internally to be able
to share what
i have to say i guess rather than just
giving this
uh i don't know i think streaming in
general has just changed a lot
and uh i think the game now is more just
like
it's just a big pr
fest of [ __ ] and it doesn't really feel
as genuine as when i
was a part of it back like five six
years ago
and i'm just not really down for the
game anymore if that makes sense
sure you're
you got too much actual living to do to
be pretending to live
yeah i mean i've been in the back end of
streaming and like the forefront of
streaming for a long time like i've seen
it all
so i know i just know
and i know it doesn't do anything for
like for like
a deeper meaning it doesn't do [ __ ] like
you know
true yeah so kind of the reason i
mention this is
because if we think a little bit about
you know the stuff potentially like the
weird stories of uh
you know whatever betrayal or whatever
yeah if what you're looking for is
connection
right because that's really what i'm
hearing is that yeah exactly
exactly it's exactly what i'm looking
for i just want
people to feel me for me because i gave
people this thing that wasn't me and i
just like i feel like i want
people to really feel like the actual
me you know and it's not like an
acceptance thing i just need them to
know
before i go that that's like
that that person is and was there
because people seem to have this like
preconceived notion of me uh from years
ago
how i was like a jackass and all that
but that that was part of the job for me
and you know and i felt like i was
creating a show whereas like now
i just want to be uh
i just want to be seen for who i am not
for like
something that was built as like a
career
if that makes sense okay
sounds wonderful and also i'm a
tiny tiny tiny bit alarmed
because you said before i go i'm curious
what do you mean by that
i i'm more so mean like before i just
drop off the social media grid
okay yeah like i have a long term plan
of just ending up
not in the public at all you know
uh it's kind of just like like i said
it's hard to
really be an actual like human when you
have to look at all of these different
opinions of you
every single day and yeah you can just
not look at it but like you know that
shit's like
like how do you create art without
connecting with your
you know the people that are following
it you know what i'm saying
so yeah yeah so what i'm kind of hearing
is that
you're on a journey to find who you are
you want to share that with other people
they can accept or reject it
but that being engaged with them in a
social media pr
fest will actually negatively impact
your journey because then it'll be about
giving people what they want and you
need to pull away from all that
so that you can continue to create yeah
for sure i think
being truly creative especially in an
artistic way like whether you make art
or
whether you're a musician or whatever
you do i think it's very important to be
in at peace with yourself and really be
able to express yourself right like if
you're
living this like reality where you're
just juggling like five different
different
like you know uh the social media sphere
where it's like a ladder climbing
reality like if you're living that
then i don't think you can create like
true art in my in my opinion and like
i'm just trying to really
paint a beautiful picture of some pain
that i've gone through
you know yeah yeah it's interesting i
think uh
you know what we create is content
yeah content there you go so [ __ ]
soulless
yeah for sure you know
it's interesting because even even here
at healthy gamer what we create is
content and yeah true i mean it's all
content right
yeah so i think it's interesting because
i think internally we we also have a
you know kind of a process of like you
know what
what do we want to do here do we want to
grow or do we want to help people
and sometimes those are at odds with
each other
for sure and i do think sometimes people
get caught up in a good thing that's bad
for them
which is i think i think sometimes
there's good things that are not the but
it's not the correct thing for people
but because it's good
they stay doing it and they're not
unhappy right like
it's like someone that has you know a
crazy position at like some
job that they work for and they're
making you know a lot of money or
whatever but they're just like
they're not really fulfilling themselves
in a way that like their
deeper self wants to like express itself
yeah so how would you know well i knew
when i just looked in the mirror and i
wanted to beat the [ __ ] out of that
person in the mirror that's what i knew
i knew
i i just knew like you know it just hit
me like but
but i only was able to get to that point
because i was doing like off stream i
was doing work on myself to like because
i was just extremely depressed i was you
know
and i was like how do i fix this like
i've always been a problem solver kind
of guy
so i was like how do i fix this and the
only way i was able to really like
it's not like i fixed it but the only
way i was able to like get pieces of
uh the pain to like sort of shed off of
me i didn't have to wear it as much was
just through
like the things that you told me like
meditation uh really diving deep
into uh just yoga uh
definitely food that you eat all that's
like cleansing my body sort of like
enabled my mind to like shed that pain
and it was a painful experience and for
a while i was absolutely crazy
but i came out the other end knowing a
lot more about myself
even if it was a painful journey to go
through can you tell me about that
journey
sure i mean i i was nuts for a while
like
i was on like i tried all these diets i
showed like keto i tried
intermittent fasting i even fasted for
10 days straight where i didn't eat
anything i just drank water for 10 days
i did all these things just like
because you know i was just researching
like on the web that's where i've
learned everything it's just like
on the internet so you kind of have to
decipher like what is valuable
information what isn't and not like be
an idiot about it but
uh yeah i was just like sort of like
teaching myself more about the human
body and the human mind how it works all
that
so i think i i don't know i think i
definitely learned a lot but it was a
painful experience for sure
so mitch i'm you you kind of you'll use
these words that have a lot of
volume but i'm not quite sure what i'm
hearing you'll say i was crazy for a
while
so i'm getting oh well you were on the
outside i was crazy
yeah well a lot of people
i feel like would view me as like crazy
or something if i'm just like doing all
this like it looks manic like sort of
right but
to me it was like something i had to go
through does that make sense
sort of because i i don't i'm
like i can understand your conclusion
but i'm having a lot of trouble
understanding like you know when you
were doing let's say keto or
intermittent fasting
what were you experiencing what were you
looking for
what you know i get that you come out
the other side
but cleanse yeah i was looking at this
cleanse spiritually
mentally physically all of it how did
you know you needed to cleanse
because i was miserable i was i had the
most anxiety out of any human i'd ever
met i would wake up every day and
constantly check my heartbeat just to
see if it was beating and if it was
beating too fast
i would assume that i'm having like a
heart attack or something like it was
like i was literally crazy with anxiety
and the only thing that gave me a little
bit of peace from that was
cleansing my body uh like truthfully
like
if i had kept eating the same way and
keeping the same stress levels that i
had from streaming and i stressed myself
i was streaming because
it was always like this like numbers
game right and like if i if my [ __ ]
wasn't doing well like
i had to pretty much just destroy the
part of my ego that gave a [ __ ] about
streaming because that part of me was
destroying me whether it was like making
me successful or not
that part of me was absolutely
destroying me and i
literally had to just kill that part of
me because
living every day just like like if i had
a bad stream the rest of the day i would
feel like i was a failure
i was a loser i was a [ __ ] up whatever
you know
and i just had to destroy that part of
me because i literally could not keep
living like that
how how do you destroy that part of you
just taking a lot of time off of
streaming and healing and not looking at
social media going for walks in the
woods becoming
a [ __ ] human again you know like
that's what helped me a lot actually was
just
not being plugged in and just being
completely unplugged sort of living a
boring life for a while but
that boring life sort of gave me
uh i i guess you could call it a
dopamine fast for a long time you know
yeah interesting um
it was funny a couple weeks ago speaking
of content i i did a
i did a a quick debunk of the dopamine
fast
and and talked a little bit about it but
um
you know it's interesting mitch because
i hear you say you had to kill that part
of you but what i'm sort of hearing is
that you
sort of let it wither out and die is it
yeah yeah
yeah i would say withered yeah i didn't
just like slay with a sword die it sort
of
it died a slow painful death yeah for
sure but eventually like i said i came
out the other side happier like
even today like i'm still sad like
obviously in this conversation it's a
little bit more sad because i'm
digging deep into the things that i
still haven't really come to full
fruition and like dealt with right
there's still a lot of things that hide
inside of me and i have to deal with
those but
yeah yeah i mean i think that it's
important to remember that
the goal of spirituality is not to not
feel sad anymore because sadness is a
part of life
it's to sort of feel peace or
tranquility
in the face of sadness yeah or in the
face of
excitement yeah um and and i do get the
sense mitch that you're
more at peace now than i've ever seen
you
i am more at peace now and i have music
to thank for that truthfully
i think that putting all of my energy
into a different outlet
that isn't just like built with that
immediate feedback that twitch had
like it just makes me slow down and able
to
live a better lifestyle if that makes
sense
yeah can you tell me a little bit about
how music has helped you
absolutely uh when i first started music
i was just kind of [ __ ] around
or messing around with uh you know some
viewers of mine or whatever
and then after like a couple songs i was
like you know i kind of want to try and
make like a heartfelt song right and
then i was like thinking
to myself like what bothers me the most
right now and what bothered me the most
what still bothers me the most is the
fact that rick was no longer here
and i decided to just put all that pain
into into a song
and uh in the first verse there's like a
memory i have with reckful that uh this
one haunts me like crazy is um
a week before he died i was at
uh his like condo downtown with like his
his roommate merc i was hanging out with
his roommate merc and it was like 3 a.m
or something
um but merc was like yeah like you can
just pass out down down they had like
two condos right so he's like you could
just pass out at the condo
uh below no one's there he told me no
one was there and i go down there
and i walk into the kitchen and i just
look over and i just see byron
like on the balcony just kind of like
looking off into the sky
you know and he was just like you know
just pondering like thinking whatever
and i in that moment i was like i should
go
you know say something or talk to him
and i was like too scared to i was like
oh he might not want to see me or like
you know maybe he doesn't want to talk
right now maybe he's just you know
having a moment to himself whatever
so i just i thought you know i really
just turned around and went back
upstairs
and then a week later he's gone so like
in the first verse of that song it's
like
i kind of talk about that that that that
story
and um i don't really go into the same
detail that i just told you
but it's like i kind of put everything i
had into
that song when it came to the pain that
i was dealing with from that situation
and i still live in regret every day not
not being able to say anything
to him that day what do you regret about
not being able to speak to him that day
my fear and anxiety stop me from from
saying something to him and i'll never
get a chance to say anything again
i literally saw him a week before he
died
and i said nothing
it haunts me like really badly
when you say haunts you how does that
affect you
nightmares um
just i don't know it's like this like i
like whenever i really deeply think
about it i just get this overwhelming
sense of like grief i guess it's like uh
it's like uh like i messed up or
something you know
i'm gonna think for a second okay mitch
yeah you're fine
what does your mind tell you would have
happened if you did not
let your fear and anxiety control you in
that moment
i think i could have i think i could
have had a conversation i think i could
have helped byron because at this time i
was on some spiritual journey and
whether i'm an idiot or not
i'd like to believe that i've learned
some things and that i could have maybe
you know
just showed him that there's other ways
to find happiness you know like uh
i think he was already on a spiritual
journey of his own but
i i think that i i don't know like if i
had just spoken to him i think it would
have
i think it could have sparked something
that may have
helped you know so i think it's fair to
say that
if you had said something it could have
sparked something
that could have helped yeah that's a
very accurate assessment
and at the same time i i don't know
mitch if you've gotten to this point
in your journey but like you know a big
part of my
understanding of the journey is that
like things
have to happen in a particular time and
place
that you can regret as much as you want
to about the past
but at the end of the day it's the past
that makes you the person that you are
today yeah
um i know yeah i know
i'm just saying the person i am today i
still have a lot of work to do
i just yeah it's like i live every like
the red sickness that we talked about
last year has gotten worse but like i've
found ways of uh coping you know
internally
but truthfully like yeah i feel alone as
[ __ ] man like i do
and uh i'm trying my best
to to cope with like
you know and it's like on the internet i
almost wasn't allowed to be sad you know
it's like oh
you're [ __ ] making this much money or
whatever like you're successful like
shut the [ __ ] up like that's kind of
what i was like just like this boot up
my ass like you know i'm not allowed
it was like it just felt like a very i
just couldn't be in that environment you
know so i had to
stop yeah i had to just stop
so you know mitch i'm a little bit
curious you know what
i mean i could send data your way i
don't think that would really help
um i've read a lot of data
like i said i don't think it would help
um
you know it's hard so you know i deal
with suicide a lot
as a psychiatrist i think it's really
challenging for people to
you know i think just about every person
that i've talked to who's a survivor
after
someone they love or care about commit
suicide has thoughts or experiences like
yours
right like they their mind finds one
moment in particular
and it'll sort of like think about
it'll usually involve personal weakness
yeah right like where you'll say like if
i had been stronger than
dot dot dot yeah
and but the thing is the person i am now
i feel like i would have made a
different uh decision
yeah and so this is where if you want to
get like you know off the deep end of
spirituality like what we have to
understand
is that the person that
you are now
was born out of that tragedy was born
out of that moment
yeah what do you think about that
i think
it awoke me in a way but it's like i
don't know if i was ready to be awoken
that way but it happened regardless of
what if i was ready or not
and yeah i think it
it took me on a journey of like i said
spiritual like
a spiritual journey to where i started
caring less and less about my ego and
more and more about
inner peace
bro the whole [ __ ] internet was so
so asleep that that's what it took to
wake us up
yeah right when you say you weren't
ready
you're right you weren't ready and yeah
well that's
why that's why it was necessary
right because sometimes it takes a big
ass wake-up call
and so i think this is where like this
may sound kind of weird but like i'm
gonna lay a burden at your feet
because if this is the price that was
paid to wake you up
you better [ __ ] be awake now which i
think you understand
i'm definitely awake man and i am just
trying to change
the whole thing like i'm trying to
change everything that i used to do and
do things in a in a correct way
uh yeah and that's why i i do still
struggle a little bit with like the
internet stuff because like
you know there's obviously some people
that say some pretty [ __ ] up [ __ ] to
me and it's like uh
i don't really want to get into it but
uh yeah i read some terrible things like
uh because i know people just don't seem
to do their research or know
like how like i don't know yeah
that is true yeah people people tend to
make judgments very easily
and and you know there's a correlation
between not doing your research and
making judgments which is that
the more research you do i think the
harder it is to make a judgment
yeah and so what we end up with is a
bunch of people who make judgments
without doing any research because
that's the only way you can do it
yeah i just i don't know i've never been
someone that does that too often
especially yeah i don't know so to me
it's
hard for me to relate to that like i
would never comment on someone else's
like [ __ ]
without like knowing what the [ __ ]
happened yeah
i think that that's a healthy way to go
through life but
it's hard to do that right it takes a
lot of effort it's a lot easier to just
judge but
for sure for sure and i i don't think
that should matter like i think
you know if i was a strong if i was as
strong as i
want to be and am capable of being i
don't think i would even pay any mind to
that but
truthfully it's like i was raised on the
internet and like it just like
the opinions of people on the internet
obvi you know they just
it matters to me right just because this
is like to me it's like
it's like i've been my whole life you
know so it's uh it's hard to look at it
from a different
point of view but that's what i'm
working toward is looking at it from a
different point of view
absolutely yeah i mean i think like you
said we were all raised on the internet
so it's just how we how we function i
was absolutely raised on the internet
for sure which is like maybe a bad thing
but
definitely was raised on the internet
yeah so this is also where i'd kind of
think a little bit karmically for a
second i'd say it's i don't think it's a
bad thing it's
it's what you needed right so if you
think about your struggles and even
i venture to say your contributions what
i want
what i'm seeing in you i don't know if
this is actually true or not
but what i'm seeing in you mitch is like
you are not alone
in your struggle you are not alone in
being a child of the internet and
actually like
even more so today children that are
born born today will be more a children
of the
child of the internet than you were
right because things are getting worse i
think you're right i think they are
getting worse
so if you think about it you had a
couple of years before as you put it
twitch became pr [ __ ] but now
everyone coming up on twitch is existing
in this current
world yeah which this current world i
feel like
is just filled with manipulation and
what can you do for me
and all these people that are just
running around with their heads cut off
trying to like build this false sense of
ego and add things to their resume
and then they're gonna wake up one day
and be like wow i wasted my whole life
chasing a dragon that didn't even make
me happy and i'm glad that i realized
that at a young age because
if i didn't i would still be that
[ __ ] idiot person you know sitting
there and doing this like
shallow-ash [ __ ] trying to make myself
feel like i'm cool
yeah so hopefully your music will help
people get there
yeah for sure you know
so i'd also be a little bit careful
because i'm still detecting some amount
of
ego and judgment towards them what do
you think
bitterness who's them i don't know
but you're talking about you're talking
about people
oh yeah no i yeah you're right for sure
no i definitely have
a little bit of like resentment and
stuff towards like
just like ignorance in the world i
really like
and when i say people it's more so just
like the manipulation that
is like behind the scenes it's not
really like the viewers or any of that
it's more of just like
the things that i've seen on the back
end of just straight
as9 like some acting that deserves an
oscar winning a war type [ __ ] you know
i've
just seen i've seen everything man and
uh
it's sad to see just the masses be
fooled on a [ __ ] scale that's like
i don't really feel like getting more
deep into it but uh it's just
i've seen it all just trust me i've seen
it all
yeah i i don't doubt that you've seen it
all i'm just a little bit confused and i
want to be careful because i don't you
know i don't want to push you into
starting drama and at the same time oh
it has nothing to do with anyone like no
drama none of that [ __ ] like this
this honestly stems from like my father
and other things like that like
obviously this happens on the
you know it's it's just a lot of things
i just feel like i have trouble trusting
people because of
the experiences i've gone through okay
yeah so now we're gonna kind of take a
i'm going to take a slightly different
approach
mitch just toss something out you decide
whether it's worth pursuing
so i feel like we were talking a little
bit more spiritually and the reason i
had mentioned your father i'm
glad you brought him up again is because
if your challenge
is to connect with other humans okay
let's say that like i feel alone
i think if we want to try to understand
that there's absolutely a spiritual
element that we've talked about it's
like hey i put on a mask
i become this person that i want to be i
hate what i see when i look in the
mirror
shedding that mask letting that ego
wither away starting your creative
process
putting something out there that is
authentically you giving people an
opportunity to connect with that
we walk down that road there's another
element here
um which we can talk more about that i
don't think that's done
but there's another element here which
is just very simply from like a
psychological standpoint from a social
conditioning standpoint
if you're telling me that your problem
is loneliness
and you're telling me that you've been
deeply betrayed
as long as that emotional energy of
betrayal and that
the conditioning the adaptations that
happened in your mind due to that
betrayal exist
it's gonna be hard to connect to other
people bro
oh yeah for sure but i feel like i've
done a good job of forgiving those
people like
that's the first step to me was like
forgiveness of the betrayal but it
doesn't it doesn't
like fill the hole that still exists you
know like i have forgived
forgave most you know everything that's
happened to me
and like especially on the internet [ __ ]
like i give i could give a [ __ ] about
that
but it's yeah like there's people in
chat saying train for example but me and
train talk daily and are like are good
friends so
like this is again like the ignorance
does bother me a little bit because that
guy who typed that didn't do his
research and for me that's annoying but
like
i don't know that's just part of why i
quit streaming you know
i don't feel like babysitting all day so
but i then what do you think why do you
what's the whole
if you've forgiven what's left what help
me understand that
uh what do you mean so you said like
like you've
you've learned how to authentically
forgive which you know
sure i'll if that's what you're saying i
i think
i trust you there but i'm curious then
like what's the hole that's
left you said the hole that's it doesn't
repair the hole or doesn't fill the hole
yeah i think the hole that's left is
just
like i said i i want to express myself
in
a true manner you know that's like the
whole and obviously
once i do that i feel like maybe i'll be
able to connect with people
easier and not have as many walls put up
or whatever whatever is like stopping me
from
experiencing like love or
something like similar to that you know
just like deep connections i guess
so mitch at this point i think i'm about
to ask you to tell me more or i'm i am i
do actually at this point want to know a
little bit more about your dad
but let me first explain my reasoning
sure so what i what i'm hearing is that
you feel uh
emptiness and lack of connection on the
inside and what yeah
what you fi what you've hypothesized so
you've started on this spiritual journey
and you're going to create this music
and you're going to share it with the
world and you'll
hopefully connect with people yeah in my
experience
that is going to be an important but
insufficient step
for sure and and so i think that what
i'm hearing is that you have
walls up but making music may be a part
of that process
but there's a part of me that just the
way you're describing things
makes me feel like maybe there's
something to be learned or gained from
like
understanding more of the details
because you you
you know all the details and based on
the details you've come up with a
hypothesis
yeah if we think about you know what i
try to do and what i try to help people
with
it's it's not just to sort of fulfill
the plan that they've created
it's actually to sort of figure out if
the way that you've constructed your
hypothesis is
missing something and this is the first
time during our conversation where
i feel like maybe something is not
adding up for me like with all the
spiritual stuff oddly enough with the
grief stuff things like that
all that stuff like i'm with you 100 i
think i like i think it makes perfect
sense
for some reason i'm getting the sense
that there's a blind spot something
about
with what you're talking about now yeah
for sure
there definitely is a blind spot i just
think it's uh
it's a lot to indulge into but i mean i
can tell you
what like what bothers me and i don't
know i just
it's hard to explain i just feel as
though i'm constricted of what i can say
just because i do really feel as though
my father is all that i do have and even
though our relationship is [ __ ]
it's like maybe one day wouldn't be and
if i just air out
all of the shitty things that have
happened that i'm just forever closing
that portal i guess
okay i'm so glad you shared that because
let's think about this okay so
number one our our north star our
primary compass is we do not want to
have a conversation with you or do
anything
that will hurt you in any way shape or
form
okay so if if you feel like talking
about the stuff and
airing this [ __ ] out is going to
negatively impact your relationship with
your father we don't want to do it
well i don't even think he would ever
see this because he's never given
a [ __ ] about what i've done on the
internet so but regardless
yeah yeah so then this is the thing
right so like i think this is what i'm
kind of picking up on like
you're kind of thinking if you air this
[ __ ] it'll close the portal forever
i know it sounds kind of weird it's the
this will close the door
forever if i do this thing
that's not how life works
right i mean sometimes you can have
catastrophic events like
death right where doors are sort of
closed forever
but you know that's the rarity and what
i'm wondering is
if that fear of closing the door forever
is part of what is actually the problem
yeah it probably is part of the problem
i actually do have
a lot of fear about that like i've
wanted to speak about the things that
that have like really bothered me about
that situation but i've sort of kept it
to myself
um and um yeah it's
it's something that is difficult to
think and speak about for sure
yeah so now we have a choice okay so i'm
going to toss out one statement this is
going to be inflammatory
it may evoke emotions but in the past
mitch
have you has your fear controlled what
you want to say
right so like here we are again where we
want to
we want to give you time and space but
like i'm going to point it out to you
because if your fear
of saying something like we actually
don't want to hurt you right we don't
want
you to do anything that's going to like
end up bad so we want to be sensitive
that we don't want to create drama we
don't want to ruin your relationship
with your dad but if he ain't gonna
watch it then like that fear is all in
here
yeah it is internally yeah it is it is
yeah
it is internally i have a
it's it's just so [ __ ] up man like i
don't i don't know
so once again if if you're not ready to
talk about it that's actually fine i'm
okay with that but i think
at the least what we should talk about
is your
fear about not like you don't actually
have to talk about it
the important thing is not whether you
share some story or not the important
thing is the fear that's controlling you
yeah for sure it's not it i guess it is
fear yeah i guess it is fear
it's more of a thing where it's like
am i the piece of [ __ ] if i talk about
it
you know like it's it's like it could be
that's the problem right it's like
i just think of these in this like
skewed way because it's like if i talk
about things that bother me
then there's always going to be people
that are assuming
that i'm saying x for y reason
you know it's like i don't feel like i i
don't feel
like if i make myself vulnerable that it
won't be twisted in some way because
most of the times i have made myself
vulnerable it has been twisted in some
way and
and i don't feel safe in that way
yeah all right mitch i need your help
okay yeah i need you to tell me if i'm
bullying the [ __ ] out of you
no man you're fine wait for it
okay so here's the thing like bro that's
exactly the problem
like here you are not being authentic
about the person that you
like what you feel on the inside because
you're like oh what if these people
think i'm saying this [ __ ] for pr
like that's exactly what you've spent
the last who knows how many months
getting away from
is to connect to your authenticity and
not give a [ __ ] about how people are
gonna judge you
and you speak your truth yeah you're
right it actually is fear holding me
back from that you're right
it's like it's all about this like how
you know
and it's more it's not just like pr it's
more of like how would my
like it's like how would my father twist
that like let's say my father heard this
conversation
and i said what bothered me how would he
twist that to me that's more of what i'm
talking about you know yes
i and why the [ __ ] that started with
your dad and now you're doing it with
the rest of the internet
yeah you're right
yeah you're you're not wrong i'm like
literally
i'm literally like [ __ ] up from that
and i just put that on everyone else
it's like
i'm like oh yeah well you're right yeah
you're right i just assumed the internet
would do the same thing then
yeah you're right you're right you're
right because the
because but you you learn how to
recognize that pattern
and be afraid of it but it sounds like
that started with your dad and like
the internet was just you know not
taking you seriously 2.0
but i don't even know because i actually
don't know i mean i could be talking
completely out of my ass because i still
don't know what happened with your dad
and that's sort of why i can give you
i'll i can give you a little bit of
details like i'm just going to slowly
ease into it rather than just yeah you
know i'm saying
that's what i mean about bullying you i
don't want you to like you know push you
into speaking no
if i unleashed all that i would probably
just yeah my mind would not be good like
it's like i have to i have to deal with
this like one phase at a time type
yeah but a big thing a couple couple
things that
happened was i feel like i told you
about the situation with my brother
right where it's like i just feel as
though
um like i guess i can just tell one
story but please
just like hear me out because this is
very personal [ __ ] you know what i'm
saying
um yeah well there was one i was like 23
or so
and my brother had always he grew up
with autism like asperger's
and you know he was always different but
um
he was a good he was a good smart dude
you know he used to paint
and he had some beautiful paintings man
like uh yeah he was very talented dude
and uh as he grew up like my mother got
really ill and my mother was kind of the
main like caretaker for him then like
held his hand through life and [ __ ] you
know
and um
i just remember one time when i was 20
my my dad was like my brother was
falling apart you know he was
he was not going he was
calling my mother was not able to take
care of him anymore
and uh were you gonna say something yeah
i think i'm
lagging from a server standpoint i'm
wondering if this is the universe's way
of
like double checking that we want to say
what we're about to say
i mean i can stop it's up to you man
i think that this this feels important
to me but at the same time
like absolutely like i don't want to
pressure you into this
you know yeah i don't really feel
pressured i just okay
like i already told you the things i'm
fearful of is more so just
um yeah just i think sometimes when you
are honest and have an open heart
people like to
sort of stab that invulnerability or
that sorry that that vulnerability
and yeah that's the only thing i'm
fearful of is that
i don't know i just uh yeah so we'll
we'll i'd like to help you
feel supported enough
to be able to be courageous and to help
you be
more vulnerable despite the fact that
you've learned probably the hard i mean
undoubtedly the hard way that that's a
bad idea
so if you're cool with it i'd love to
hear the rest of that story you were
talking about your brother and how he
made good art
yeah my brother hold on
all right i
yeah okay so the story i don't know
where we left off but
my brother yeah he makes good art and
uh he there was one time when i was 23
and my
my my dad or sorry my brother was not
doing well
he was you know not taking care of
himself because my mother was not able
to
take care of him the way she used to
because of her own illness and
uh there was like my dad told me i i had
i rented
this is like when my stream first
started doing well so i rented the house
next door to my
mom's house because i wanted to be close
to her and i was with my
friend ethan we lived at this place next
door right
and my dad called me and he's like hey i
need you to do me a favor
and i was like okay what is it and he
just said
uh i've called social services and
they're picking up
your brother and you need to go there
and moderate it and make sure everything
goes okay
and i'm just like what why why the hell
am i doing that
you know and he just put that all on me
and i remember the [ __ ] cops came and
they were just like
they were like uh my
my they were like my brother is like not
aggressive but you know how
any cops are man they're just they're
they're like
you know guns blazing type [ __ ] and it's
just like dude like they were scaring
the [ __ ] out of my brother man
and i had to sit there and calm down
like hey please he's not aggressive you
know he has autism you're going to scare
him like i had to deal with all of this
and like
i didn't have any support for my family
and i just sat there while my mom
who is struggling with her own health
problems has no idea what's going on
because she's had
multiple strokes and has had brain
surgery and brain cancer and she's just
sitting there crying doesn't know what
the [ __ ] going on and i had to like
moderate all of this while my father
just dipped you know and it's like
i i don't know and it just ate me inside
man i saw that and to this day
my brother is just rotting away
somewhere with like a
a bunch of like crazies man like there's
just no way he's happy
and and this should just way so heavy on
my [ __ ] soul man like
i don't know what to do and i feel like
i i have trouble talking about
any of this [ __ ] and it's like i i may i
don't know man
it's it's just hard for me to even
think about it like it sucks i feel like
all the parts of my childhood that i
loved are just gone
and i don't know what to do
okay so
mitch we're gonna help you with this all
right
so i don't think we need to talk more
about your past but that was a really
powerful share and i can sort of see
so much can i start talking
yeah the first thing is holy [ __ ] no
wonder you feel alone
i feel so alone man like i fee and not
only that like
i've never shared this [ __ ] you know
like this [ __ ] is like [ __ ] that i've
been trying my best to just deal with
on my own and i just portrayed myself
as like this put together gamer or
whatever like that was my escape from
all of this [ __ ] you know and
uh once you just really dig inside
yourself and realize you
can't escape you can't no matter how
successful you become no matter
how far away you run this [ __ ] will
destroy you man
and it [ __ ] me up every [ __ ] day
okay mitch
are you in a space to listen i have
yeah so you are a hundred percent right
that no matter how far you run you can't
escape
and that's because you carry it inside
you
you know if i have kryptonite if i have
kryptonite in my backpack
and i go for a jog i'm taking that [ __ ]
with me bro
yeah and if i were to think about
speaking of
artistry and imagery can you hear me
okay
i can okay i know you're hurting i'm
gonna talk okay
is that okay yeah obviously a lot has
become clear for me and i i think that
you can't escape from it but you can
absolutely deal with it
and and that's becoming clear to me so i
i know it sounds weird like i know that
you're feeling like
shattered and [ __ ] and i'm sorry if i
you know because i did that
sort of i mean it was there but
mitch i feel hopeful
i need to help my brother somehow man
we'll get to your brother in a second
okay let's focus on you for a second can
you do that for me bro
yeah so if i were to if i were to
if i were to make a picture okay maybe
not
what are you feeling sorry [ __ ] i'm
good i'm good i'm good
tell me wait what are you feeling i
don't i don't need to get all ugly right
now just it's fine man they just
i'm having trouble i just need a deep
breath okay just give me yeah let's
breathe
like i said it's like i do i have
thought about these things before
and it's like but alone you know like i
i don't talk about this [ __ ]
and uh it's just uh i just yeah
i had a plan though with all this [ __ ]
you know like i really did
i don't know i had a plan man it's like
i'm just trying to do an ounce of good
bro you know like i i
for my for my [ __ ]
i've just lost the [ __ ] child like
the person that i once was you know
it's gone like it's just been
[ __ ] shattered man like
oh i just i feel like the world is just
dampening me and uh
i have a lot to share yeah
yeah so i know it sounds weird mitch but
do you have a sense of why
i could be hopeful when you say things
like that
no can you tell me why yeah it's weird
right
because the first thing is like because
you're not alone in this moment
like you're saying that you don't share
this stuff and you just did
right because like the problem here is
that you've been carrying this [ __ ] all
by yourself
and like that's like you're carrying it
with you wherever you go and you're the
only one who's carrying it so like right
now in this moment what i
what i saw you do is take off your
backpack for a second
and pass it to me
right and i can hold it for a few
seconds before i pass it back which is
fine man
like the only way this works is for you
to like not be alone anymore
right and and this is the this is the
challenge is like when i think about
i'm gonna just keep talking okay
whatever you're feeling
you gotta tell me if i should stop
feeling like a dick for keeping talking
but i'm gonna keep going
so here's what i'm here's what i'm
seeing mitch
if you were to ask me i'll look paint a
portrait of loneliness
what i would have done before this
conversation
you listening yeah i'm gonna keep going
okay you tell me when to stop do i need
to stop
well are you good okay i'm gonna keep
going okay
yeah if you were to tell me to to paint
a portrait of loneliness i would have
painted a person by themselves in an
empty room and what i'm realizing now
what that painting involves
is is if i had taken a snapshot of you
being on the phone being 23 years old
walking into into a room that has cops
your autistic brother
and your mom with cancer and strokes
that is the portrait of loneliness
in a nutshell
and yeah yeah
it feels overwhelming to share it
but i'm gonna ask you a question mitch
do you feel alone right now
no no i don't i just feel very
vulnerable
yep because this is this is it right
like it's really hard to like bury your
chest because you don't know if the
knife is coming
mitch bro this is a part of your journey
and i know you feel vulnerable and we're
gonna sit with you okay
yep we're just gonna sit you don't need
to do anything you don't need to say
anything
i can talk if you want to i can listen
if you want to
how how can i how can i
heal this like like even just opening
this small
little window has made me just feel
uncontrollably sad
and i have that image in my mind
yeah the image in my mind
and um
i just remember how much my my brother
and my mother
loved me you know i was just like
a year to a year or two ago
i just went my brother had this
i can't even [ __ ] talk now he had
this like chest
full of like everything he had collected
and he had like a he had these game boy
files it was a gameboy blue
gameboy red and one of the files was
he like named the file after me and
i opened up the file i just logged into
the game
he completed everything 100
he just he just misses me you know
and i just feel like i was just running
away
because i can't face this [ __ ] man
i can't face this [ __ ]
okay mitch i'm gonna say something weird
to you that you're probably gonna
push back against i'll ask you a
question
is it okay to not be able to face it
no it's not okay because
there's no one else that will you know
there's no one else that will
so if i if i don't
i'm gonna have to die with this paint
you are i know this is gonna sound
[ __ ] weird mitch but i want you to
listen okay i want you to use whatever
ounce of energy you have to listen to my
words can you do that right now
probably not maybe not
yeah if you give me like one second man
yep i i can listen just give me one
second yeah
yeah you want to take a break for a bit
go wash your face something like that
compose yourself
i'm sorry if i'm keeping you up i don't
know i don't know how this
you know i don't know man well looks
like we opened pandora's box so we're
gonna put it in order okay
we're here bro there's no rush
god man it's like everything that i ran
from
like you know i ran from this i met the
streaming people that i met
and now i can't even talk to them man
like
this world it's just so weird and like
i swear it's just like
i don't know man i don't know
all right yeah i'm gonna take a second
okay yeah take a second
all right so i guess if people are
watching
i forgot for a second that this is being
streamed
all right so let's take this opportunity
all of us to take a second
okay so feelings can be powerful they
can control
us um
and that's okay and that
you know learning how to tolerate
feelings sit with feelings
letting them out is absolutely like an
important part of this process
if we want to heal
all right i've collected myself a bit i
apologize
what are you apologizing for
i don't know i just need to keep myself
put together you know i just apologize
for
i don't know just everything i don't
think you did anything wrong
i'm worried i did yep i understand that
you're worried and i understand that
your instinct is to apologize
and i think what happened is
let's be honest i pushed you a little
bit i felt like there was something
important there
and you
you have a pandora's box
and i have i have a soul that bleeds
so hard yep and everyone just views me
as this person that i created and i hate
that person it's like i live like a
double life and i i
my life is [ __ ] weird man
yeah so mitch like this is why i have
hope for you because
in this moment you are no longer living
a double life
there is no longer the dude on the
inside and the dude on the outside
and you ask how can you heal from this
well you opened a window in this
it smells like [ __ ] in there and so the
the smell that comes out is so
overwhelming there's so much emotional
pain there's so much negativity
but the whole reason that it's in there
is because you never open up the window
you've just made a huge step forward and
when it comes to your brother you're
right that if you are not there for him
you will die with this pain
mitch how old are you i'm turning 29 in
two days
and how long are you gonna be alive
i don't know so let's say that like
if i carry this pain and this stress
i've learned enough about health that
that [ __ ] will probably end up giving me
some sort of illness that i don't want
so yep so let's say that average
average life expectancy in the u.s is 72
or so so you've got about 43 years
left if you have chronic illness you
knock off 10 off of that
so you've got 33 years left
so this is where i want i know it's
gonna be hard because you feel guilty
for abandoning your brother
okay but i think this is where like do
you need to be there for them
i for him i'm gonna say yeah and if you
say because no one else will
i will say yes mitch you are correct
that is your dharma that is your duty
and
you don't need to do it right this
second
yeah right you i honestly had a hard
time i had a hard time
every time i would call him i've caught
i called him
i i visited actually uh like a
couple years ago uh on like christmas
and wherever they have him they have him
on a lot of drugs
i think that's just part of how the
system works here
where it's like we deem you unfit for
society
so we put you on drugs but that's the
last thing he needed they have
they have uh just dampened my brother
to a point where he's just complacent
and there's no
he's not like i he needs help
okay so i i
understand that i i may have a slightly
different perspective
but that's neither here nor there but i
think like in my mind your road is
pretty clear
and you're walking it right so this
started with you streaming at the age of
20 becoming successful developing an
ego getting involved in drama
starting to die on the inside yeah
running away from the true pain yeah yep
and then you
started waking up and you lost byron and
that was hard for you and it was hard
for me and it was hard for everyone
oh it was so hard for me man yep
dude he was like the one i talked to him
about this [ __ ]
and he knew what he knew all this [ __ ] i
talked to him we had so many heart to
hearts about [ __ ]
yeah and byron was someone that
had been in this streaming world so long
too that we were both
so [ __ ] over it man and
oh man i just wish i could talk to him
one more time
well i mean i know it sounds kind of
weird but
mitch you can talk to him
right like you may not be able to hear
his words but you can still talk to him
i do i literally [ __ ] send i [ __ ]
i'm crazy bro like i literally dm his
twitter every now and then like he's
there
i'm sick yo man
i don't know there's very few people
that you meet in this world that
will listen to you and he listened to me
you know
so mitch i know this is going to sound
kind of weird i think that that has been
your experience so far
but what i'm seeing right now makes me
hopeful that there are a lot of people
in this world that if you give them the
chance
they will listen and maybe this is a
consequence of streaming and [ __ ]
because
like you said you know there's always an
ulterior motive so people who are like
streaming like this is a challenge that
we see is like
you're in the business of friendship
right yeah
exactly it's it's all like
half of it is like a sham in my eyes
half of it is just like i want to be
friends with x person because x person
can do this for me and like
it's so empty dude it is
empty as [ __ ] and like i don't
understand
why people want to be that why
do you want to be like if why do you
want to feel like me in the end nobody
you know what i mean like so
mitch let that go as best as you can
okay and recognize that when you make
your music
you are taking one step closer to
connecting when you share this today and
you
open the pandora's box and all the
emotion comes rushing out
and it feels overwhelming you are taking
one step closer to being like authentic
and like letting that healing process
begin this is what healing looks like
you know surgery ain't pretty it's not
like wow where you see these beautiful
green pluses
and a bar fills up
like healing is more like blood magic
like
in reality right it's like you pay the
price
to fuel that healing
yeah and like i paid the price like i i
i've done some work to deal with this
but as soon as i go
a little deep even like alone like this
this comes out in me and like this is
where i was at when i was making music
you know i was like
this would come out and i would just be
sitting there like writing
and like just putting it into like words
i guess and like to me
that was sort of therapeutic but it
doesn't fix the problem you know
yeah so i think you've done a lot on
your own but bro
this is where like you're right like i
don't know that
it's the i mean i'm sure you can because
you're still
young i mean you've got you've made a
lot of good breakthroughs and you'll
keep making breakthroughs
but this is where i'd say bro don't walk
this journey alone this is not a journey
you need to walk along
i understand why you feel alone i
understand that there have been people
in your life who
should have been very close to you and
like that has like you know your dad
kind of dumped that [ __ ] on you
and then you know there have been people
who have you haven't been able to
connect to
but this is where you need to party up
this is not a single player game anymore
making music sure
i feel like making music is more of a
way
it's more of a deeper way of doing my
job if that makes sense
you know like uh i just feel like as a
streamer i couldn't i had to just
i had to you know like nobody wants to
watch this [ __ ] you know what i mean
like people want to watch a happy person
playing a game
but like with music like people can
relate and there's a message and a story
and it's like
it's it's it's it's authentic you know
and that's why i felt like
i yeah yeah mitch your music has
the pain has purpose when it comes to
your music
and so i can totally respect that but
you know that's like that's one part of
your journey that i think is awesome
that you've been watching but there's
like
this is the blind spot that i'm talking
about like
this [ __ ] needs to be dealt with
directly
right like you need to share these
stories and
let them out of your soul when you say
your soul bleeds on the inside
yeah that's because it's like stuck full
of knives and like you're not pulling
them out
because when you pull that knife out the
blood starts spurting more
yeah and then when the blood spurts more
i'm in fear
of how you know people will like i don't
want to be attacked
when i'm opening myself up on the most
vulnerable level because i have
i i have been attacked before you know
on a wide scale
and like i know like that pain as well
you know the pain of being widely hated
by the internet
my that was my reality for like two
years and it like
it was like it was it was mainly hurting
my ego which i learned to get away from
that and not really
give a [ __ ] about that side of things as
much as more which i'm glad i made that
development as well but like i'm in fear
that if i pull the knives out on a scale
where it's not just me alone in a room
by myself that i'll just bleed out
until i'm dead you know yes like so so
bro listen like very simply right
you've got 32 years left
and so what i want you to do very dying
at 60.
yeah if you this this [ __ ] keeps going
right and i'd give yourself like two or
three years
like honestly i'd give yourself two or
three years to put yourself in a good
head space
before you help your brother but should
you help him yes
absolutely are you the only one who can
probably
yeah and so like i i get that he's kind
of medicated out and stuff like that but
that too i mean they're
you know i know it sounds kind of weird
you just gotta trust me on this one as a
psychiatrist sometimes
there are people i see their fam i see
family members
who come and see like their chronically
mentally ill
family and they're devastated by what
they see but honestly like
there are some places that are pretty
good where people are actually happy
there i know it sounds crazy
yeah i know it sounds absolutely crazy
but like
there is happiness to be found in a
mental hospital and way too many people
fall in love that's a whole different
problem but
anyway i just when i visited there it
didn't seem like an environment where he
could thrive to the fullest that's all
so so i i can't comment on that facility
but
you know i i know it sounds shocking and
it can be emotionally painful to accept
but like
having worked in some of those
facilities i i know if that i had family
members who were like that
like i would actually be willing to send
them there because i know that
life on the outside can actually be
harder
right some anyway this is this i'm
getting off into yeah you kind of come
coming back to you my point to you is
that you know i would
to a certain degree trust what your mind
is telling you but also recognize that
like
you know if you that for now this may
not be quite as bad for your brother is
emotionally
you think it is because your feelings of
abandonment are gonna amplify
the situation that you see him in does
that make sense
yeah so i'm not saying you shouldn't get
him out of there i'm not saying you
shouldn't do more for him by all means
do both of those things
but cut yourself a little bit of slack
right because you were thrust into this
situation at the age of 23
and the responsibility for your brother
while it's unfortunate that all of it
falls onto you
you can't be expected to bear it right
away
yeah so be patient with yourself
not only that my my mother as well my
it's not just my brother it's my mother
as well so
i will say this to you in the strongest
possible way so when you say it's hard
to be vulnerable because you've been
punished
so what you need more than anything else
mitch is a regular person i would highly
recommend therapy
where you can go in on a weekly basis
and share this [ __ ] open one tiny window
at a time
yeah i've never actually given therapy
uh 100
of a try i have spoken to people but
it was just it just didn't get anywhere
yeah so i think that you probably
the spiritual fortitude that you've
developed over the last year
will hopefully help you
handle therapy like a little bit better
and get more out of it maybe you just
weren't ready yet
but i think now that you've done all of
this personal work
it's time to start cleaning out the
cellar
and you're right that if you pull
everything out of your soul all at once
alone there's gonna be too much bleeding
out that happens
that's exactly what happened to me when
i went into this i went into this alone
and was trying to just deal with the
pain through
just like body like manipulation i guess
you know
and um it worked like i was bleeding but
holy [ __ ] i was bleeding so hard that i
didn't even want to continue
you know and it's like that was
very like some of the moments that i hit
in in those times when i truly opened up
even alone
were almost were too much you know and i
can't even imagine
if i was that person with you know
telling to somebody else you know it
just feels like you're even
it's it's weird you know i don't know i
had a couple eye-opening moments though
when i was
trying to deal with this on my own so
mitch you are i think
an amazing example an amazing example
of the benefits and shortcomings
of spirituality when it comes to dealing
with something incredibly traumatic
because there's no doubt in my mind that
you've come a very long way on your own
it's amazing
like even that one story is like
absolutely heartbreaking and
soul-shattering there's
man there's so many more yep so we're
not going to go there
okay so now i'm going to set a limit if
i can
because i think we don't we want to like
we want to do this sort of like
you know like yeah once yeah yeah right
so i think that's healthy
anything more than that i think would
feel a little bit too much
yeah right so i appreciate you for real
i feel i feel
like after i've calmed down i feel a
little like a little
like i don't feel as heavy i guess i
feel a little bit like better
i still feel like i have a lot to do and
there's you know
but i do feel a bit better thank you
yeah you're welcome
bro you're right you have a [ __ ] ton to
do but this is how we
have to teach you you have to learn how
to do it in a safe way right
like you don't go jumping into the
pacific ocean it's like let's step into
the kiddie pool
let's try swimming four feet let's
yeah you know kiddie pool sounds good
yeah
and and i think bro like it's amazing
like you've done awesome stuff with diet
and it sounds like you're you know
making
music and it's like very authentic and i
think it's really unfortunate but
you know the most beautiful art is
created by the most painful life and
that's why as a society we love
art right because it speaks to us on a
level that like
you know an artist that painted a
painting 700 years ago
can talk to you today you can feel
connected with them
so like i don't know this is gonna this
is gonna sound kind of random i'm gonna
say this to kind of light in the mood
you know that song in the air tonight by
phil collins
i do the one that was it was in tarzan i
think no
i don't know what movies is that but
it's one of these songs where like i
don't know what the [ __ ] he's talking
about
because the lyrics are so damn vague he
just says i can feel it coming in the
air tonight
that's all he says yeah and i have no
idea
idea what he's talking about but i
understand him a hundred percent
um yeah that's why music is special i
feel like even if you haven't gone to
the depths of pain that the person is
speaking of
there's a human consciousness that can
sort of connect with it
absolutely so like you walk that
spiritual journey
you create your music have it be part of
your growth
have it be part of your therapy yeah and
also
work with someone else don't bear this
[ __ ] alone
right but you see why the music helps me
though it's like
if i can't share this in a way through
words it's like
i'm i'm looking for deep connections
right so if
if i can deeply connect with somebody
out there through music then i've done
that's what i'm looking for love
whatever you want to call it you know
some sort of
thing that isn't just on the surface
like i really strive to
for that can you tell me a little bit
about
your music yeah what what about it
just tell me about it well and what in
specific
what do you mean so i understand what
you're striving to do what have you met
like what are you conveying through your
music
my story you know the my
uh my my little album that's coming out
on my birthday and
three two days is like it's it just
tells a story you know
and uh so yeah i'm trying to just convey
my
story in in little windows like you said
um and be able to relate
on a level where i feel like i can
connect with people
because i felt like as a streamer i was
having difficulty connecting with people
awesome man yeah
mitch you've really come a long way dude
thank you bro
i appreciate you saying that for real it
means a lot to me thank you
i'm going to do my best not to get
emotional but i'm going to toss this
last one out i feel really
if it's it's heartbreaking to me that
you've had to come so far
on your own and if i if i had if i could
change
one if i had a magic wand that could
change one thing in your life
i wouldn't try to take away your journey
um because i think it's important and
healthy to walk the journeys that where
we walk even if they're painful the only
thing that i wish is that you didn't
have to walk it alone
yeah i appreciate you for saying that
even after just talking to you i don't
feel as alone as i did
you know i feel like you were able to
listen to me
and um thank you for that i
this was very scary for me and i still
am worried
you know but it's all good i feel like
uh
that's part of you know me just
accepting things for what they are
yeah man i i think it makes sense to me
that this
felt good and it's scary because i think
learning how to trust
is going to be a slow process the
saddest thing is very hard for me
very very very very hard for me
the saddest thing about trust is that it
can take a lifetime to build and a
moment to shatter
yeah for sure and that that's another
thing with the you know the the music is
like
uh i'll on friday at like
oh it's scheduled for like 3 p.m i'm
doing like a live
or like a performance or whatever and
i'm like i'm really anxious that that
you know but i feel like that's going to
help me just like be in that
moment like those like flow state
moments where you can really just be
yourself like those are the kind of the
moments i like live for
you know and uh i'm
just looking forward to trying something
different whether people
[ __ ] on me or not i'm just going to keep
pushing my head
face strong into the [ __ ] brick wall
until it collapses you know like i'm
just
i'm just going to keep going man yeah
man
yeah mad respect i i think
here's what i'd say to you mitch like
you kind of said whether people like it
or don't like it
it's not about what people like or don't
like it's about what you have to offer
yeah so if you're doing a live stream
some you know what i'd say to you is
like you may be worried
oh what if i screw up or whatever like
it's not about screwing up or doing a
good job
it's about giving us whatever you have
to offer yeah i'm just very nervous i
you know
i haven't streamed i haven't streamed in
six months and i'm doing
something completely different and it's
just
it just you know it's just a little
nerve-wracking it's all
yeah i can imagine man i do not i do not
envy you
yeah for sure i don't think anyone dies
oh man sounds rough bro not gonna lie
but man i can i can feel the weight of
your scrotum growing from here
yeah let's hope uh yeah let's hope it
goes
it'll go well i gotta think positively
you know yeah i it's like
my message is real my my feelings my
heart my soul is in this [ __ ] you know
so and that's another terrifying thing
you know when you when you when you
share a piece of your soul
criticism hurts even more than if you're
just creating a persona right
like when people would attack mitch
jones i didn't really give a [ __ ]
you know to me mitch jones was just a
[ __ ] 19 year old version of myself
that i just brought out every day
but when you when you when you really
dig deep and share the deepest parts of
your soul and then people are like
[ __ ] on that that is painful but
it's something that i've i'm used to
and i'm i'm equipped for you know so
yeah
awesome man so do you want to give us a
couple details about so are you going to
be streaming on twitch or what like
where can we find you where
where can we find your album yeah well
on spotify
it's coming out on the 23rd and then on
the 20th
on the 23rd like on my birthday i'm
doing like a birthday celebration and
like
so at 3 p.m on my main twitch channel
i'll just be doing
like uh i'll be doing like a show you
know it's like i'm showing a
music video that can stare a maid you
know can stare right
he made like have you ever heard like
it's your boy asthma gold it's your boy
asman gold
never heard that okay you're unplugged
from the memes but yeah he makes all the
twitch
like videos and i made this song and he
made the video and it's
it's a beautiful heartfelt video and uh
it's
like the the song is called time machine
and it kind of just talks about
uh a lot of the stuff that you know not
not as deep
as we talked about today but it just
talks about the things that have been
like weighing heavy on my conscience you
know
and that's like the lead of the of the
album and then the rest of it is just
a story of like you know meeting a girl
and then having good times
and then back to anxiety and you know
living with
anxiety for like one of the songs is
called no in between and the hook goes
like
mine you know it's like my anxiety gets
the best of me
i'm up and down with no in between like
that's just like
that's just me you know and it's just
like a whole it's a whole story you know
what i'm saying and uh
yeah so i'm gonna be i'm gonna be like
performing all these songs
on at 3 p.m on my channel and i'm hoping
that it goes well yeah
yeah man i'm yeah
i know there's been a lot of pain today
mitch but i'm i'm it makes me happy to
see the person that you're becoming
thank you thank you very much it's 3 p.m
ct by the way so central time
cool you should check it out it would be
cool to have you just be like yo like
that'd mean a lot to me sure i'll i'll
do my best i i think i may even
uh depending on when you start we we may
we may try to rate you but
yeah well i'm doing like a 24 hour
countdown thingy right so it's like it
starts at on the 22nd
at 3 pm ct and then the show will start
when the 24 timer
24 hour timer ends on friday at 3 pm ct
so if you're not busy then
it'd be dope to just be like yo what up
dr k you know yeah
absolutely man i'll do it
thank you i appreciate that and i feel
like you've done a lot of good for the
community you know um
yeah i just i don't know your support
would mean a lot to me just because i
feel like a lot of the things i'm
singing about
are just like my mental struggles and
yeah it's like i feel like you've helped
me with my mental struggles so
yeah yeah i i i'd love to hear it i know
that actually
um my wife likes your music
oh yeah that's so
i i i you know it was kind of weird i
you know i know we've communicated a
little bit
prior to the stream but i i actually
haven't listened
to it i found emotionally for some
reason it was hard for me and i'm i'm
beginning to think maybe that was
karmic in some way oh it is loaded
emotionally yeah for sure yeah i just i
couldn't bring myself to
to listen to it for some reason um
but i think maybe that was the
universe's way of
telling me to you know wait until it was
time and it seems like it's time
in a couple of days yeah no it would
mean the world to me if you know you
were there
so thank you sure okay well i i think we
sort of stumbled on the end
yeah we definitely did i mean i like my
brain is spinning right now man
yeah yeah mitch take care of yourself
take it easy okay
okay thank you we'll try to catch you on
friday bro
hey thank you very much i appreciate it
yeah
thank you man bye later
all right chat sometimes life ain't easy
huh